Title: Bike camping over Snoqualmie Pass
Date: 2020-10-10
Category: Personal
Tags: outdoors

Two months ago I set off along the [Palouse to
Cascades](https://palousetocascadestrail.org/) trail with my bike and a stuffed
set of panniers. The goal? To get outside (really outside) and experience my
first overnight bike camping trip.

Ever since talking with someone who structured her life around a series of
mini-retirements - saving up while working and then taking six months off (or
more) to bike around the country until the funds ran out, I've wanted to go on
a bike camping trip.

The problem is, I've never done anything like bike camping before and for a
long time, the process of preparing and planning such a trip seemed too
daunting of a task. Most online articles try to be helpful in this regard, but
gear reviews and packing lists more often than not lead into a
counterproductive analysis paralysys spiral.

Here's a secret: not everything needs to be planned out in its entirety. If you
want to do something, just [set a date and commit to
it](https://tomsbiketrip.com/planning-a-bike-tour/) and the rest will take care
of itself. This mentality might not work for everyone, but I find the more
often I adopt this approach, the more pleased I am with the result. I don't
need the perfect set of gear, or even a complete set of gear. As long as I can
manage, that is good enough.

I want to let the rest of the story be told through a few select photos. I
can't express through words how magical this experience was for me, but I can
share with you my highlights.

---

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/packing-list.jpg)

Packing list comprised of roughly the following categories: sustenance
(food/water), warmth (clothes/shelter), emergencies (repairs/first aid). Most
everything I already owned. What I did not, I found at the grocery store near
my house. No specialized stores required.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/table-outlook.jpg)

First stop. Out of sight is the busy I-90. The view is incredible, and doubly
so because I got here with my own two legs and a bicycle.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/resting-on-fallen-log.jpg)

Mini lunch break by the side of the path. Bicycle in the shot, in case you
didn't already know that I'm going bike camping!

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/path-over-trestle.jpg)

The path crosses over several ravines, so cool! How often do you get to bike
over an old railroad trestle?

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/mt-defiance-probably.jpg)

View from a trestle. The air smells clean and the problems of yesterday seem so
distant.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/snoqualmie-tunnel-bikeshot.jpg)

Snoqualmie tunnel. A two mile long railroad tunnel underneath Snoqualmie Pass.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/snoqualmie-tunnel-depths.jpg)

Cold and dark, the lights you see are from other people, not the end of the
tunnel.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/keechelus-lake.jpg)

Out on the other end, the view of Keechelus Lake as I stop for a snack before
finding a place to camp. Across the lake, cars and trucks fly down I-90
completely unaware of the beauty they are missing out on.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/stopping-for-dinner.jpg)

Vibrant orange bike, but I assure you it's much dirtier than when I started.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/end-of-day-selfie.jpg)

I did it! A satisfied selfie at the end of a long day of biking.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/hammock-ridgeline.jpg)

Hammock ridgeline setup. I have no idea how to tie it, so I wrapped it several
times around the tree, added a wooden toggle, and called it good enough.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/morning-sunshine.jpg)

First time sleeping in a hammock. I got a bit cold in the middle of the night,
and I have a few bug bites now because of no bugnet, but this is way more
comfortable than using a tent.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/morning-view.jpg)

The morning view from my hammock. I've been reading for the past hour because
it's so cozy in here!

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/keechelus-lake-stumps.jpg)

Keechelus lake in the morning light. These stumps are so cool!

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/avalanche-warning-sign.jpg)

Danger, avalanche area! Nice pop of color from the sign.

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/snoqualmie-tunnel-east-entrance.jpg)

Hello darkness, my old friend

![]({static}/images/bikecamping/resting-under-avalanche-shelter.jpg)

Taking a break under an old avalanche shelter.
