Title: One year of hair growth
Date: 2020-10-17
Category: Personal
Tags: hair

Last year I decided it would be fun to learn how to cut my own hair, and, after
many days of researching the best tools and watching countless videos on DIY
haircuts, I finally mustered up the courage to purchase a pair of clippers. A
secondary goal was to save money by doing the job myself as opposed to having a
hairdresser do it - kind of ridiculous when I think back on it: my hairstyle
was very low maintenance and I only got it cut four or five times a year
anyways. Regardless, I committed to it, and in September 2019 I gave myself my
first haircut, along with the help of my wife, Savannah. The end result was a
success, and the process ended up being a lot of fun too.

I envisioned myself getting much better at self-haircuts in the coming months
and years, but so far that vision has not yet come to fruition. You see, soon
after, I decided that it would be *totally awesome* to cosplay as Link from The
Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, for next Halloween. Link's hair in that
game is not short. It's long, much longer than I've ever had or ever dreamed of
having. But it would be a new experience, and I'm all about new experiences.

The rest of this post is dedicated to showcasing my (approximate) one year
progression of hair growth. I'm having a lot of fun with longer hair and I
don't see myself cutting it anytime soon.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2019-09-23.jpg)

2019-09-23. The first picture I could find after my haircut. It was also the
first day of fall, which I commemorated by wearing a blanket scarf. Being
directly under a ceiling vent, I wore a lot of warm clothing when in the
office.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2019-11-26.jpg)

2019-11-26. Two months later. From the front it looks almost identical, but the
sides are fuller and the front of my side swept bangs are longer.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2019-12-05.jpg)

2019-12-05, beginning of December. Pictured here with an infinity scarf that I
made.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2019-12-10.jpg)

2019-12-10

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-01-07.jpg)

2020-01-07, new year! Same hair style, just longer.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-01-09.jpg)

2020-01-09. If I pulled my hair down, it would probably be to my nose?

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-01-23.jpg)

2020-01-23

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-02-10.jpg)

2020-02-10. Showing a lot of forehead üòÆ. With the help of texturizing clay,
I've discovered that the hair "swoops" I love so much can be made by finger
combing back and over, rather than forward and across.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-02-11.jpg)

2020-02-11. Hats are a great way to stay warm and accessorize an otherwise
messy hair day.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-02-14.jpg)

2020-02-14. Valentines day üíñ

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-02-24.jpg)

2020-02-24. I tried my luck at a middle part, not a big fan.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-02-25.jpg)

2020-02-25. Back to the swoop.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-03-09.jpg)

2020-03-09. Ponytail milestone! This was my first attempt and it didn't turn
out perfect, but it felt super cool regardless, especially since my goal was to
eventually cosplay as Link.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-03-18.jpg)

2020-03-18. A much better ponytail, in my opinion.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-03-20.jpg)

2020-03-20. Side swept bangs used to be my favorite style, but it's quickly
being replaced the pony üê¥

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-03-30.jpg)

2020-03-30

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-04-02.jpg)

2020-04-02

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-04-06.jpg)

2020-04-06. A higher than usual ponytail, and a mask because it's pandemic
season.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-04-23.jpg)

2020-04-23. Ponytail with messy side bangs. Also known as the
*hair-keeps-falling-out-of-my-pony* look.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-04-29.jpg)

2020-04-29

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-05-04.jpg)

2020-05-04. Pushed down, this is about 7 months of uncut growth.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-05-15.jpg)

2020-05-15. Side view of a no product sideswept style

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-06-03.jpg)

2020-06-03. About 8 months of growth.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-06-22.jpg)

2020-06-22

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-06-29.jpg)

2020-06-29

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-07-01.jpg)

2020-07-01. ~9 months of growth.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-07-09.jpg)

2020-07-09. I like the level of messiness in my hair. The neck gaiter was made
by me as well. One of my favorite pictures.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-07-30.jpg)

2020-07-30. Headbands are so useful when I'm feeling lazy and I want the hair
to stay out of my face.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-08-05.jpg)

2020-08-05. This is probably specific to the fact that I started my hair growth
journey with short sides and a longer top, but my side hair always falls out of
any ponytail that I wear. Bobby pinning the sides after putting my hair up
helps prevent what I like to call Einstein Whiskers: the tendancy for that side
hair to become loose and stick out, rather than staying close to my head.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-08-07.jpg)

2020-08-07. 10 months of growth. I could probably audition for a Cousin Itt
role.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-08-13.jpg)

2020-08-13. A halfway attempt at posing - you have to have a little fun while
taking pictures, right?

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-08-26.jpg)

2020-08-26. Wearing a bandana that I made.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-09-18.jpg)

2020-09-18. As close to the one year growth mark that I could find.

A weird side-effect of this journey is that: looking back on old photos of me
seems so much longer ago than it did before, and I have more trouble
recognizing/identifying with my younger self in the picture. I think this is
because, until recently, I've had pretty much the same hairstyle my entire
life and my brain had a strong mental image of what I looked like. It was easy
to hold up an old photo and recognize myself in it, because I looked almost the
same as before. As I've grown out my hair, that sense of physical self has
changed as well, so looking at old pictures requires me to rewind, mentally, to
a point in time where I didn't look like what I do now.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-09-23.jpg)

2020-09-23, playing around with effects in the Photo Booth app.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-10-12.jpg)

2020-10-12, side view of a pony

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-10-14.jpg)

2020-10-14, another half bun. I'm starting to prefer buns over ponytails
because they don't pull at my hair as much.

![]({static}/images/hairgrowth/2020-10-15.jpg)

2020-10-15. See that bandana? You had better appreciate how nice it looks
because I hand-sewed it, and it took forever!
